##Department: Graphic Design

- Course: Media Design
- Year: 2014-2015, 2nd year
- Teacher: Dirk van Oosterbosch
- Semester: 2

#Assignment: Beautiful Algorithms

###Learning Goals

Acquire an insight on algorithms and their usage. Develop an understanding into the inner workings of an algorithm. Being able to express these insights and understanding into a written text. Being able to produce visually interesting work based on computational processes.  

###Description

Something about inspired by nature, spring, botanic gardens and algorithms which mimic nature. ... (to be expanded)

**Study these five algorithms** (ordered from simple to advanced)

- Fibonacci
- Recursive functions
- Perlin Noise (1D, 2D, 3D)
- Binary Tree sorting
- L-systems

**Write article about the algorithm**. Topics can include: the invention or history of the algorithm, explanation of the problems that this algorithm solves, examples and use cases of application of the algorithm, explanations of the workings, effects of the algorithm compared to alternative approaches. The article should contain at least 500 words of your own text [1](#footnote1) [2](#footnote2)

**Design the article in a relevant medium**. Remember Marshall McLuhan's: "the medium is the message". So choose the medium that fits your story best:

- "longread",
- eBook,
- website,
- e-Reader app,
- smart phone app,
- video,
- ... etc

**Illustrate the story and the algorithm**. *A picture is worth a thousand words*. Create illustrations, graphs, animations or interactive visualizations that illustrate the topics in the article and/or illustrate the inner workings of the algorithm. The illustrations should explain the examples of the use cases of the algorithm better or convey insight into the inner workings of the algorithm. These illustrations maybe hand crafted, generated by code or a combination of both.

**Include code snippets in the article**. The code snippets are not part of the 500 words, but are relevant in conveying insight in the workings of the algorithm. As you are a designer, make sure the code snippets are designed properly as well, and have nice code syntax highlighting.

Combine the illustrations and code snippets in a relevant and meaningful way. If you want to explain the inner workings of the algorithm, its use cases or its effects in a really insightful way, think of ...

<a name="footnote1">1</a>: Quotes and footnotes not included.  
<a name="footnote2">2</a>: The text may contain much more words, but preferably kept under 2500 words for timely evaluation.

###Planning

Create a journal, notebook or blog about your research.
(to be expanded)

###Evaluation

Upon delivery of the produced article. The article will be judged on the textual contents, the illustrations, and the overall design and approach.

Criteria for judging the work:
Process, Structure, Insight, Coding Skills, textual contents (quality of the writing, is it factual, correct usage of quotes and footnotes), expressive quality of the illustrations (do they illustrate the point?), creative approach to the "article".

###Literature

Yet to be determined.